---
datePublished: '2016-08-22T09:26:46.757Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2016-06-01-about.md
inFeed: false
authors: []
hasPage: true
keywords: []
author:
  - name: ''
    url: ''
via: {}
dateModified: '2016-08-22T09:26:45.963Z'
title: About
publisher: {}
description: >-
  Amidst the astonishing poverty of Calcutta streets, one woman creates a
  miraculous melting pot of potential where rich, poor, destitute, Hindu,
  Muslim, Christian, children unite, actively rewire their society and create a
  future of their own choosing. Meet Maya who at five years old managed to care
  for her 2 year-old sister for 6 months in the train station alone. Kali, a
  young girl from the street who now has the power not only to fight for her
  abused mother, but for the education and rights of women and girls in general.
  Saloni, Anamika, Agnes and others who are among thousands of other children
  who are reaching out to help and sit beside one another. Sit Beside Me is the
  story of a young Irish girl who longed to comfort the untouchables of her own
  classroom during World War 2. At 13, Cyril Mooney resolved to dedicate her
  life to helping those living in oppression on the margins of society. At 20,
  she went to India for life, to sit beside those most in need. There she opened
  the gates of her school to children of all castes, religions and social
  backgrounds, igniting a surprisingly simple yet radically effective revolution
  in education. Filmed over seven years in Calcutta, Sit Beside Me is a journey
  into the surprising lives of Sister Cyril’s children and how they are remaking
  their society one child at a time, from the inside out.
inLanguage: null
inNav: false
starred: false
url: about/index.html
_type: Blurb

---
# About

Amidst the astonishing poverty of Calcutta streets, one woman creates a miraculous melting pot of potential where rich, poor, destitute, Hindu, Muslim, Christian, children unite, actively rewire their society and create a future of their own choosing. Meet Maya who at five years old managed to care for her 2 year-old sister for 6 months in the train station alone. Kali, a young girl from the street who now has the power not only to fight for her abused mother, but for the education and rights of women and girls in general. Saloni, Anamika, Agnes and others who are among thousands of other children who are reaching out to help and sit beside one another. Sit Beside Me is the story of a young Irish girl who longed to comfort the untouchables of her own classroom during World War 2\. At 13, Cyril Mooney resolved to dedicate her life to helping those living in oppression on the margins of society. At 20, she went to India for life, to sit beside those most in need. There she opened the gates of her school to children of all castes, religions and social backgrounds, igniting a surprisingly simple yet radically effective revolution in education. Filmed over seven years in Calcutta, Sit Beside Me is a journey into the surprising lives of Sister Cyril's children and how they are remaking their society one child at a time, from the inside out.
![Amidst the astonishing poverty of Calcutta streets, one woman creates a miraculous melting pot of potential where rich, poor, destitute, Hindu, Muslim, Christian, children unite, actively rewire their society and create a future of their own choosing. Meet Maya who at five years old managed to care for her 2 year-old sister for 6 months in the train station alone. Kali, a young girl from the street who now has the power not only to fight for her abused mother, but for the education and rights of women and girls in general. Saloni, Anamika, Agnes and others who are among thousands of other children who are reaching out to help and sit beside one another. Sit Beside Me is the story of a young Irish girl who longed to comfort the untouchables of her own classroom during World War 2. At 13, Cyril Mooney resolved to dedicate her life to helping those living in oppression on the margins of society. At 20, she went to India for life, to sit beside those most in need. There she opened the gates of her school to children of all castes, religions and social backgrounds, igniting a surprisingly simple yet radically effective revolution in education. Filmed over seven years in Calcutta, Sit Beside Me is a journey into the surprising lives of Sister Cyril’s children and how they are remaking their society one child at a time, from the inside out.](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/the-grid-img/p/6e3c79ae1bd262ae74b9bc3f3f162623c359721d.jpg)